The West Indies cricket team toured Pakistan in April 2018 to play three Twenty20 International T20I matches.
Pakistan won the series.
Following the conclusion of the series, Pakistans captain Sarfraz Ahmed said that no team will be using security concerns as an excuse in the future.
This year or the next year, international cricket will come back to Pakistan.
The Pakistan Cricket Board PCB are hoping to play a full international series against a Full Member side in Pakistan by 2020.
It was the first tour in Pakistan of more than one match against another Test nation since Zimbabwe toured in May 2015.
In October 2017, Sri Lanka played a T20I match against Pakistan in Lahore.
The last time an international cricket match was played at the venue in Karachi was in February 2009, when Sri Lanka toured Pakistan.
That series was cut short, following an attack on the Sri Lanka cricket team.
Jason Mohammed was named as captain of the West Indies, as the regular T20I captain, Carlos Brathwaite did not travel because of security concerns.
Along with Brathwaite, Jason Holder, Chris Gayle and Devendra Bishoo did not make themselves available, also because of security concerns.
West Indian cricket team in Pakistan in 201718.
There are three symbols to represent Lord Buddha.
Architecture, sculpture, the art of carving and art are based on Stupa, Bo Tree, Statue of Buddha that belong to the Buddhist Temple.
By Bali art we can get idea of art of Sri Lanka before Mahindagamanaya .
After Mahindagamanaya art grown up based on Buddhism and Jathaka tales.
But when consulting Buddhist literature Buddhist monk got pioneering role to nurturing Buddhist art.
For an example white color and guru color paintings used to represent lord Buddha.
Initials of Buddhist art can see using these colors. Lord Buddha also accepted to draw nature paintings like florists on these painted polished walls.
According to Thera stanzas, painted Lord Buddhas biography by King Bimbisara sent to his friend.
Kusa Jathakaya shows the art of pantings on Jathaka Katha.
Colombo West Electorate was one of the electorates in Sri Lanka between July 1977 and February 1989.
This electoral district is named after the city of Colombo in the Colombo District of the Western Province.
This district was formed in July 1977 by dividing the Colombo South electorate into Colombo East and Colombo West electorates.
The 1978 Constitution of Sri Lanka introduced the system of proportional representation for the election of Members of Parliament.
The then largely single member constituencies were replaced by 160 multimember constituencies, replacing 160.
In the 1989 general election, the first election held under proportional representation, the Colombo West electorate was replaced by the Colombo multimember electorate, but Colombo West continues to be a constituency within the multimember electorate.
Results of the 8th Parliamentary Elections held on 21 July 1977 for this constituency.
Vineetha Thero is a Sri Lankan Buddhist monk.
an Artist and song writer in Sri Lanka.
Location of the Temple of the Tooth.
Surrounded by the Udawatte forest to the east of Kandy, the Hanthana mountain range on one side and the Bhairava mountain on the other, the Kingdom of Kandy has a temperate climate.
Fertile enough to grow any crop.
Aluth Kandy, Medamahanu Kandy, Hanguranketha Kandy, Nilambe Kandy, Senkadagala Kandy and Gale Kandy are protected areas of the Tooth Relic.
History of the Temple of the Tooth.
In 1312 a town called Senkadagala Siriwardanapura was established near the area then known as Katupulle.
Another legend says that the city was named after a Brahmin named Senkanda and that the city was named after the goddess Sankhanda, the chief consort of King Vikramabahu III, and that the name was derived from a red stone called Senkadagala.
The Temple of the Tooth and the Natha Devalaya for Lord Lokeshwara Natha were built here during the reign of Wickramabahu III 13571374 AD, the ruler of the Gampola Kingdom.
The relics of the Buddha have been deposited in a dagoba, a two storied Poya house, 86 monasteries have been built and the book has been published by offering relics and statues.
King Rajasinghe I of Seethawaka, Jayaweera 15111552 AD, Karalliyadda Bandara 15521582 AD Wimaladharmasuriya I 15901604 AD and the last king of Sinhala, Sri Wickrama Rajasinghe 17981815 AD 10 have taken over the kingdom of Kandy.
The Tooth Relic resided near the palace at all times except in the face of hostile threats.
Buildings of the Temple of the Tooth.
AD Built between 1805 and 1812.
The architectural design was done by Alakeshwara Dingiriappu alias Devendra Mulachari.
Appointed by the kings in ancient times, this post was transformed into an elected office by the British rulers who changed the system of feudal duties.
The Diyawadana Nilame is in all respects the primary role of the laity in the provision of services related to the preservation and preservation of the traditional Dalada Shrines of the Temple of the Sacred Tooth Relic and in the performance of general administrative services including immovable and movable property.
Currently the Diyawadana Nilame is being appointed under Ordinance 19 of 1931.
When the Kandyan rule came under the control of the English.
From 1814 to 1824 the post of Diyawadana Nilame was held by Adikaram Nilame of Kapuwatta.
Nineteen Diyawadana Nilames, beginning with Adikaram Nilame of Kapuwatta up to now, have held this noble post.
Appointed on 1st July 2005, Pradeep Nilanga Dela Diyawadana Nilame still holds this post today.
It seems that the Tooth Relic was known as the Elder House, the Relic Hall, the Tooth Relic, the Temple of the Tooth and the Temple of the Tooth.
ප්‍රධාන ලිපිය දළදා වහන්සේ from time immemorial, it has been accepted by the people that the king of the country should be in charge of the Tooth Relic and the Bowl Relic.
Due to this, the kings of the past protected the Tooth Relic and the relics of the bowl from their lives.
What happened to the relics after the Middle Ages remains a mystery, but the Tooth Relic remains intact.
Namal Uyana is a natural park in Sri Lanka.
It has been designated as a unique conservation area due to its historical significance, biodiversity and geographical features.
Due to this the National Namal Uyana has become an attractive oasis for tourists.
They are Diya Na Batu Na.
Na Park Na flowers are most fragrant and last from April to June.
At the Period of Devanampiya Tissa of Anuradhapura there were not any Na trees.
At that time, it was a Residential treatment center.
As a treatment of Rehabilitation penology na trees were planted by people who were in rehabilitation.
ancient ruins of Namal Uyana.
To enter the Namal Uyana in the Galkiriyagama area in the Kekirawa Division, take the Adiyagala Road in Galkiriyagama Village, 7 km from the Madatugama Junction on the ColomboAnuradhapura Expressway.
There are two major importance of the Namal National Park.
Ceylon ironwood Na trees cover 260 acres of land in the area Mount Rose Thiruvana a pink quartz spread over an area of 500 million years.
Mount Rose Thiruvana is made up of 7 ridges and is the largest Pink Quartz Range in South Asia.
Ceylon ironwood trees with large, branched Ceylon ironwood Na stems can be seen more than the Ceylon ironwood species seen in the normal environment, and their leaves are reddish in color at the leaf stage and shiny dark green at maturity.
The largest Ceylon ironwood Na tree in Sri Lanka, about 60 feet in circumference, can also be seen in this forest.
Rajeev Yasiru Kuruwitage Mathew also known as Yasiru Kuruwitage is a famous Information Technology Consultant, Digital Media Social Media Consultant and Social Media Strategist in Sri Lanka.
Yasiru grew up in the urban village of Udahamulla in Nugegoda.
He was educated in two schools.
He was educated at Sri Jayawardenapura Maha Vidyalaya, Kotte up to GCE Ordinary Level and later passed the GCE Ordinary Level Examination and entered a public school in Colombo to study for the GCE Advanced Level.
He has also been recognized by the people of Sri Lanka as a wellknown IT consultant.
There are various opinions that the association founded by Rajiv Yasiru Kuruwitage Mathew is a fake.
Unawatuna Maha Vidyalaya is a public government school in Unawatuna.
The school has a history of more than 100 years.
Nowadays, schools have more than a thousand students at school.
In 07 th september, 1897 at Sandras estate in Unawatuna, the school established.
Later, the big support from H. W Amarasuriya, who is famous politician and buisnessman, the school relocated to his house now at Unawatuna teachers training college.The name of the school in that season is Unawatuna Bddhist Mixed school.
On 15th March 1962 become a government registered school.
Since school started, there are 21 principals working here.
K.V.P.E de Silva D.A Jayathilake J de Silva W.M Pradinandas M.W Gunasekara D.A Narangoda H.M Fernando R.D Karolis L.G.S Wickramasinghe W.A Karunarathne D.G.G de Silva M.P Mendis W.K Darmarathne Jinadasa M.P Korala D.D.N Weerakoon Jayasena Athapaththu Gunasena Nanayakkara P.P.K Dayarathne Amarasekara E.A Gamini Shantha Kumara.
In 1997, the ten films named below were recognized by the State Committee as the best films produced in the last fifty years.
Rank Title of the Film Directors Name Year 1 Nidhanaya Lester James Peries 1972 2 Gamperaliya Lester James Peries 1963 3 Viragaya Thissa Abeysekara 1987 4 Bambaru Awith Dharmasena Pathiraja 1978 5 Sath Samudura Siri Gunasinghe 1967 6 Thunman Handiya Mahagama Sekara 1970 7 Palangatiyo Vasantha Obeysekara 1979 8 Dadayama Vasantha Obeysekara 1983 9 Rekhawa Lester James Peries 1956 10 Parasathu Mal Gamini Fonseka 1966 10 Welikathara D.B.
Development during the Early Period 19011947.
In 1901, for the first time in Sri Lankan history, Governor West Ridgeway and Bover II held a private film screening for prisoners.
This incident has been recorded as the first time that a film was shown in Sri Lanka then called Ceylon.
It was a short film which showcased incidents like the victory of the British in the Boer War, the funeral of Queen Elizabeth and the coronation of Edward VII.
The cinema gained popularity in Sri Lanka when an Englishman, Weswick Major, introduced bioscope shows.
These films were screened in open spaces in temporary tents.
In 1903, the Madan theatre built permanent movie theatres.
Since this company became very successful after screening Indian films, its rival, Olympia company, built more movie theatres in the country.
In 1925, the film named, Rajakeeya Wickramaya, was produced in Sri Lanka for the first time.
Perera played the lead role in it and the film was screened in India and Singapore.
However, the film mysteriously disappeared during its screening in Singapore.
On a different note, a film titled, Paliganeema, was screened in Colombo in 1933.
During the 1920s and 1930s, the American stars Charlie Chaplin, Greta Garbo, Douglas Fairbanks Jr., John Barrymore and Rudolph Valentino became popular in Sri Lanka.
Their films such as The Shiek and The Thief of Bagdad were strikingly well received.
By 1930, Indian films surpassed English films in terms of popularity.
The movie Bilwa Mangal set a record with the revenue it generated.
Rekhawa was appreciated both locally and internationally.
However, the film was rather unsuccessful in generating revenue since an adequate audience was not available in the country at the time.
Until the mid-sixties, films with storylines influenced by the Indian cinema were produced despite the attempts made through films like Sandeshaya and Kurulu Bedda.
Once again, in 1964, Sir Lester James Perie's ventured to uplift the Sri Lankan film industry by producing Gamperaliya, the first Sinhala film in the industry which did not promote songs.
Similar to Rekhawa, this film was also shot on location rather than in studios.
Gamperaliya received a great response from its audience and critics since the film uplifted and promoted the culture of the Sinhala community remarkably well.
Despite commercial films continuing to borrow plotlines from the Indian film industry, there was a huge growth of talent among artists in the seventies.
Many films such as Vasantha Obeysekera's debut film produced in 1979, Ves Gaththo, followed by Palangatiyo, were well received by audiences.
Another director who came into the spotlight during this time period was Dharmasena Pathiraja.
His films like Bambaru Awith and Ahas Gauwwa vividly explored stressful conditions faced by youth living in cities.
The great poet and artist, Mahagama Sekara marked an important milestone in the Sri Lankan film industry in 1970 with his debut film, Thunmanhandiya, which also happens to be his one and only film production.
Sumithra Peris, wife of Sir Lester James Peris, produced films which largely focused on problems faced by women.
During the next few decades, producers like Thissa Abesekara, Prasanna Vithanage and Vimukthi Jayasundara made an effort to revive the Sri Lankan film industry.
Vithanage’s Purahanda Kaluwara and Vimukthi Jayasundara’s Sulanga Enu Pinisa are some of the greatest films produced in the history of Sri Lanka cinema.
The film, Sulanga Enu Pinisa, was even awarded the Camera dOr award.
In the recent past, Sri Lankan films have attempted to address issues such as family relationships, abortion, and the results of the conflict between the military and Tamil terrorists in the North.
Asoka Handagama has been particularly criticized for producing films with these themes.
The History of the Cinema.
Morapitiya  is a small village surrounded by mountains.
It is an electorate of the Kalutara district, in Western Province, Sri Lanka.
The school was opened by a group of 1415 boys aged 78 years on January 10, 1910.
The school was opened by the sole teacher and principal Mr.
Amerasinghe is a building built by villagers from clay and covered with a roof with coconut leaves.
Nadugala is a village belonging to Matara Thihagoda local council.
The name is derived from the sound made when a stone is tapped, hence its name Nadugala.
Nilwala river flows near this village.
In their last heist, Sams partner killed a bank guard, a crime for which Sam was ultimately convicted.
Sams partner is killed in the break, forcing Sam to continue on alone.
He sets up camp on a piece of farmland owned by Clydie Anderson Rosanna Arquette, the widowed mother of two kids, Mike nicknamed Mookie Kieran Culkin and Bree Tiffany Taubman.
Contiki is an open-source operating system for networked, memory constrained systems with a particular focus on low power wireless Internet of Things devices.
Examples of where Contiki is used include street lighting systems, sound monitoring for smart cities, radiation monitoring systems, and alarm systems.
Ambient backscatter uses existing radio frequency signals, such as radio, television and digital telephony, to transmit data without a battery or power grid connection.
Each such device uses an antenna to pick up an existing signal and convert it into tens to hundreds of microwatts of electricity.
It uses that power to modify and reflect the signal with encoded data.
Antennas on other devices, in turn, detect that signal and can respond accordingly.
Initial implementations can communicate over several feet of distance, even with transmission towers up to 10.5 kilometers (about 6.52 mi) away.
Transmission rates were 1k bits per second between devices situated 45 meters apart inside and .75 meters apart outside, sufficient to handle text messages or other small data sets.
This approach would let mobile and other devices communicate without being turned on.
It would also allow unpowered sensors to communicate, allowing them to be placed in places where external power cannot be conveniently supplied.
Simple representation of a stack runtime with push and pop operations.
In computer science, a stack is an abstract data type that serves as a collection of elements, with two principal operations push, which adds an element to the collection, and pop, which removes the most recently added element that was not yet removed.
The order in which elements come off a stack gives rise to its alternative name, LIFO for last in, first out.
Additionally, a peek operation may give access to the top without modifying the stack.
The name stack for this type of structure comes from the analogy to a set of physical items stacked on top of each other, which makes it easy to take an item of the top of the stack, while getting to an item deeper in the stack may require taking off multiple other items first.
Considered as a linear data structure, or more abstractly a sequential collection, the push and pop operations occur only at one end of the structure, referred to as the top of the stack.
This makes it possible to implement a stack as a singly linked list and a pointer to the top element.
A stack may be implemented to have a bounded capacity.
If the stack is full and does not contain enough space to accept an entity to be pushed, the stack is then considered to be in an overflow state.
The pop operation removes an item from the top of the stack.
A wireless ad hoc network WANET is a decentralized type of wireless network.
The network is ad hoc because it does not rely on a preexisting infrastructure, such as routers in wired networks or access points in managed infrastructure wireless networks.
Instead, each node participates in routing by forwarding data for other nodes, so the determination of which nodes forward data is made dynamically on the basis of network connectivity.
In addition to the classic routing, ad hoc networks can use flooding for forwarding data.
A quadcopter, also called a quadrotor helicopter or quadrotor, is a multirotor helicopter that is lifted and propelled by four rotors.
Quadcopters are classified as rotorcraft, as opposed to fixed wing aircraft, because their lift is generated by a set of rotors vertically oriented propellers.
Quadcopters generally use two pairs of identical fixed pitched propellers two clockwise CW and two counterclockwise CCW.
These use independent variation of the speed of each rotor to achieve control.
By changing the speed of each rotor, it is possible to specifically generate a desired total thrust to locate for the center of thrust both laterally and longitudinally and to create a desired total torque or turning force.
Quadcopters differ from conventional helicopters which use rotors which are able to vary the pitch of their blades dynamically as they move around the rotor hub.
In the early days of flight, quadcopters then referred to as quadrotors were seen as possible solutions to some of the persistent problems in vertical flight torque induced control issues as well as efficiency issues originating from the tail rotor, which generates no useful lift can be eliminated by counterrotation and the relatively short blades are much easier to construct.
The Great Gatsby is a 1925 novel written by American author F.
Scott Fitzgerald that follows a cast of characters living in the fictional town of West Egg on prosperous Long Island in the summer of 1922.
The story primarily concerns the young and mysterious millionaire Jay Gatsby and his quixotic passion and obsession for the beautiful former debutante Daisy Buchanan.
Considered to be Fitzgeralds magnum opus, The Great Gatsby explores themes of decadence, idealism, resistance to change, social upheaval, and excess, creating a portrait of the Jazz Age or the Roaring Twenties that has been described as a cautionary tale regarding the American Dream.
Fitzgerald inspired by the parties he had attended while visiting Long Island's north shore began planning the novel in 1923, desiring to produce, in his words, something new something extraordinary and beautiful and simple and intricately patterned. Progress was slow, with Fitzgerald completing his first draft following a move to the French Riviera in 1924.
His editor, Maxwell Perkins, felt the book was vague and persuaded the author to revise over the next winter.
Fitzgerald was repeatedly ambivalent about the book's title, and he considered a variety of alternatives, including titles that referenced the Roman character Trimalchio. The title he was last documented to have desired was Under the Red, White, and Blue.
First published by Scribners in April 1925, The Great Gatsby received mixed reviews and sold poorly in its first year. The book sold only 20,000 copies.
Fitzgerald died in 1940, believing himself to be a failure and his work forgotten.
However, the novel experienced a revival during World War II and became a part of American high school curricula and numerous stage and film adaptations in the following decades.
Today, The Great Gatsby is widely considered to be a literary classic and a contender for the title Great American Novel.
In 1998, the Modern Library editorial board voted it the 20th century's best American novel and second best English language novel of the same time period.
Set on the prosperous Long Island of 1922, The Great Gatsby provides a critical social history of America during the Roaring Twenties within its narrative.
That era, known for unprecedented economic prosperity, the evolution of jazz music, flapper culture, and bootlegging and other criminal activity, is plausibly depicted in Fitzgeralds novel.
Tomography refers to imaging by sections or sectioning, through the use of any kind of penetrating wave.
The method is used in radiology, archaeology, biology, atmospheric science, geophysics, oceanography, plasma physics, materials science, astrophysics, quantum information, and other sciences.
In most cases it is based on the mathematical procedure called tomographic reconstruction.
Tomography refers to imaging by sections or sectioning, through the use of any kind of penetrating wave.
The method is used in radiology, archaeology, biology, atmospheric science, geophysics, oceanography, plasma physics, materials science, astrophysics, quantum information, and other sciences.
In most cases it is based on the mathematical procedure called tomographic reconstruction.
In a 1953 article in the medical journal Chest, B.
The Pollak of the Fort William Sanatorium described the use of planography, another term for tomography.
A chapter in the American Roentgen Ray Society's 1996 book A History of the Radiological Sciences also provides a detailed history of the development of conventional tomography from its inception until being supplanted by computer assisted tomographic techniques starting in the mid to late1970s.
An Internet bot, also known as web robot, WWW robot or simply bot, is a software application that runs automated tasks scripts over the Internet.
Typically, bots perform tasks that are both simple and structurally repetitive, at a much higher rate than would be possible for a human alone.
The largest use of bots is in web spidering, in which an automated script fetches, analyzes and files information from web servers at many times the speed of a human.
Given the exceptional speed with which bots can perform their relatively simple routines, bots may also be implemented where a response speed faster than that of humans is required.
Common examples including gaming bots, whereby a player achieves a significant advantage by implementing some repetitive routine with the use of a bot rather than manually, or auction site robots, where lastminute bid placing speed may determine who places the winning bid using a bot to place counterbids affords a significant advantage over bids placed manually.
A mobile ad hoc network MANET is a continuously self configuring, infrastructure less network of mobile devices connected without wires.
Ad hoc is Latin and means for this i.e., for this purpose.
Cranial nerves are the nerves that emerge directly from the brain including the brainstem, in contrast to spinal nerves which emerge from segments of the spinal cord.
Cranial nerves relay information between the brain and parts of the body, primarily to and from regions of the head and neck.
PEST analysis Political, Economic, Social and Technological describes a framework of macroenvironmental factors used in the environmental scanning component of strategic management.
It is a part of the external analysis when conducting a strategic analysis or doing market research and gives an overview of the different macroenvironmental factors that the company has to take into consideration.
It is a useful strategic tool for understanding market growth or decline, business position, potential and direction for operations.
The growing importance of environmental or ecological factors in the first decade of the 21st century has given rise to green business and encouraged widespread use of an updated version of the PEST framework.
STEER analysis systematically considers Sociocultural, Technological, Economic, Ecological, and Regulatory factors.
Other variants of the mnemonic include.
SLEPT which adds legal factors PESTEL or PESTLE which includes legal and environmental factors and is popular in the United Kingdom STEEPLE and STEEPLED, adding Ethics and Demographic factors.
DESTEP, adding demographic and ecological factors.
SPELIT, which adds legal and intercultural factors and has been popular in the United States since the mid2000s.
The basic PEST analysis includes four factors.
Specifically, political factors have areas including tax policy, labor law, environmental law, trade restrictions, tariffs, and political stability.
Political factors may also include goods and services which the government aims to provide or be provided merit goods and those that the government does not want to be provided demerit goods or merit bads.
Furthermore, governments have a high impact on the health, education, and infrastructure of a nation.
Expanding the analysis to PESTLE or PESTEL adds.
These factors can affect how a company operates, its costs, and the demand for its products.
Environmental factors include ecological and environmental aspects such as weather, climate, and climate change, which may especially affect industries such as tourism, farming, and insurance.
Furthermore, growing awareness of the potential impacts of climate change is affecting how companies operate and the products they offer, both creating new markets and diminishing or destroying existing ones.
Other factors for the various offshoots include.
Demographic factors include gender, age, ethnicity, knowledge of languages, disabilities, mobility, home ownership, employment status, religious belief or practice, culture and tradition, living standards and income level.
Regulatory factors include acts of parliament and associated regulations, international and national standards, local government bylaws, and mechanisms to monitor and ensure compliance with these.
More factors discussed in the SPELIT Power Matrix include.
Other specialized factors discussed in chapter 10 of the SPELIT Power Matrix include the Ethical, Educational, Physical, Religious, and Security environments.
The security environment may include either personal, company, or national security.
Other business related factors that might be considered in an environmental analysis include Competition, Demographics, Ecological, Geographical, Historical, Organizational, and Temporal schedule.
For example, consumer and B2B companies tend to be more affected by social factors, while a global defense contractor would tend to be more affected by political factors.
Additionally, factors that are more likely to change in the future or more relevant to a given company will carry greater importance.
For example, a company which has borrowed heavily will need to focus more on the economic factors, especially interest rates.
Furthermore, conglomerate companies who produce a wide range of products such as Sony, Disney, or BP may find it more useful to analyze one department of its company at a time with the PESTEL model, thus focusing on the specific factors relevant to that one department.
A company may also wish to divide factors into geographical relevance, such as local, national, and global.
Use of PEST analysis with other models.
The PEST factors, combined with external microenvironmental factors and internal drivers, can be classified as opportunities and threats in a SWOT analysis.
A graphical method for PEST analysis called PESTLE Web has been developed at Henley Business School in the UK.
Research has shown that PESTLE Web diagrams are considered by users to be more logical, rational and convincing than traditional PEST analysis.
A facsimile of the original diary of Anne Frank on display in Berlin.
A diary sometimes referred to as journal or notebook is a record originally in handwritten format with discrete entries arranged by date reporting on what has happened over the course of a day or other period.
A personal diary may include a person's experiences, and thoughts or feelings, including comments on current events outside the writer's direct experience.
Someone who keeps a diary is known as a diarist.
Today the term is generally employed for personal diaries, normally intended to remain private or to have a limited circulation amongst friends or relatives.
The word journal may be sometimes used for diary, but generally a diary has or intends to have daily entries, whereas journal writing can be less frequent.
Although a diary may provide information for a memoir, autobiography or biography, it is generally written not with the intention of being published as it stands, but for the author's own use.
In recent years, however, there is internal evidence in some diaries e.g., those of Ned Rorem, Alan Clark, Tony Benn or Simon Gray that they are written with eventual publication in mind, with the intention of self vindication pre or posthumous or simply for profit.
By extension the term diary is also used to mean a printed publication of a written diary and may also refer to other terms of journal including electronic formats e.g., blogs.
The earliest use of the word to mean a book in which a daily record was written was in Ben Jonsons comedy Volpone in 1605.
Pillow books of Japanese court ladies and Asian travel journals offer some aspects of this genre of writing, although they rarely consist exclusively of diurnal records.
The scholar Li Ao 9th century AD, for example, kept a diary of his journey through southern China.
In the medieval Near East, Arabic diaries were written from before the 10th century.
The earliest surviving diary of this era which most resembles the modern diary was that of Ibn Banna in the 11th century.
His diary is the earliest known to be arranged in order of date Tarikh in Arabic, very much like modern diaries.
The precursors of the diary in the modern sense include daily notes of medieval mystics, concerned mostly with inward emotions and outward events perceived as spiritually important e.g.
Elizabeth of Schönau, Agnes Blannbekin, and perhaps also, on the lost vernacular account of her visions, Beatrice of Nazareth.
From the Renaissance on, some individuals wanted not only to record events, as in medieval chronicles and itineraries, but also to put down their own opinions and express their hopes and fears, without any intention to publish these notes.
One of the early preserved examples is the anonymous Journal dun bourgeois de Paris that covers the years 140549, giving subjective commentaries on current events.
Famous 14th to 16thcentury Renaissance examples, which appeared much later as books, were the diaries by the Florentines Buonaccorso Pitti and Gregorio Dati and the Venetian Marino Sanuto the Younger.
In 1908 the Smythson company created the first featherweight diary, enabling diaries to be carried about.
Many diaries of notable figures have been published and form an important element of autobiographical literature.
Samuel Pepys 16331703 is the earliest diarist who is well known today. His diaries, preserved in Magdalene College, Cambridge, were first transcribed and published in 1825.
Pepys was amongst the first who took the diary beyond mere business transaction notation, into the realm of the personal.
Pepys contemporary John Evelyn also kept a notable diary, and their works are among the most important primary sources for the English Restoration period, and consist of eyewitness accounts of many great events, such as the Great Plague of London, and the Great Fire of London.
The practice of posthumous publication of diaries of literary and other notables began in the 19th century.
As examples, the Grasmere Journal of Dorothy Wordsworth 17711855 was published in 1897 the Journals of Fanny Burney 17521840 were published in 1889 the diaries of Henry Crabb Robinson 17761867 were published in 1869.
Civil War diaries are those of George Templeton Strong, a New York lawyer, and Mary Chesnut, the wife of a Confederate officer.
The diary of Jemima Condict, living in the area of what is now West Orange, New Jersey, includes local observations of the American Revolutionary War.
Since the 19th century the publication of diaries by their authors has become commonplace notably amongst politicians seeking justification but also amongst artists and litterateurs of all descriptions.
Amongst late 20thcentury British published political diaries, those of Richard Crossman, Tony Benn and Alan Clark are representative, the latter being more indiscreet in the tradition of the diaries of Chips Channon.
In Britain in the field of the arts notable diaries were published by James Lees Milne, Roy Strong and Peter Hall.
One of the most famous modern diaries, widely read and translated, is the posthumously published The Diary of a Young Girl by Anne Frank, who wrote it while in hiding during the German occupation of Amsterdam in the 1940s.
Otto Frank edited his daughter's diary and arranged for its publication after the War.
Many edits were made before the diary was published in other countries.
The writing of diaries was also often practiced from the 20th century onwards as a conscious act of self-exploration of greater or lesser sincerity, examples being the diaries of Carl Jung, Aleister Crowley and Anaïs Nin.
Among important diaries by 20th century literary figures are those of Franz Kafka, Edmund Wilson and the French writer Paul Léautaud.
The self-reflective Diary Divine Mercy in My Soul written by Saint Faustina contains accounts of her visions and conversations with Jesus.
Friedrich Kellner, a court official in Nazi Germany, thought of his diary as a weapon for any future fight against tyrants and terrorism, and named it Mein Wider stand, My Opposition. Victor Klemperer was similarly concerned with recording for the future the tyrannies and hypocrisies of Nazi Germany and of its East German successor state in his diaries.
In none of these cases, however, did the authors anticipate early or indeed any publication.
As internet access became commonly available, many people adopted it as another medium in which to chronicle their lives with the added dimension of an audience.
The first online diary is thought to be Claudio Pinhanezs Open Diary, published at the MIT Media Lab website from 14 November 1994 until 1996.
Other early online diarists include Justin Hall, who began eleven years of personal online diary writing in 1994, Carolyn Burke, who started publishing Carolyns Diary on 3 January 1995, and Bryon Sutherland, who announced his diary The Semi Existence of Bryon in a USENET newsgroup on 19 April 1995.
Web based services such as Open Diary started in October 1998 and LiveJournal January 1999 soon appeared to streamline and automate online publishing, but growth in personal storytelling came with the emergence of blogs.
While the format first focused on external links and topical commentary, widespread blogging tools were quickly used to create web journals.
Recent advances have also been made to enable the privacy of internet diary entries.
With the popularization of mobile apps, diary or journaling apps have become available for iOS and Android.
Proponents cite the following as primary reasons for journaling with digital applications Ease and speed of typing mobile portability search capabilities entry location, date, and other metadata from mobile phones and, tags and other organizational features.
Digital diaries also seem tailored towards shorter form, inthemoment writing, similar to user engagement with Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and other social services.
A diet journal or food diary is a daily record of all food and beverage consumed as a means of tracking calorie consumption for the purpose of weight loss or other nutritional monitoring.
A dream journal or dream diary is a journal in which dream experiences are recorded for the purposes of later analysis and possibly oneiromancy.
A sleep diary or sleep log is a tool used in the diagnosis and treatment of sleep disorders.
The German Tagebuch daybook is normally rendered as diary in English, but the term encompasses workbooks or working journals as well as diaries proper.
For example, the notebooks of the Austrian writer Robert Musil and of the German Swiss artist Paul Klee are called Tagebücher.
A travel journal, travel diary, or road journal is the documentation of a journey or series of journeys.
A war diary is a regularly updated official record of a military unit's administration and activities during wartime maintained by an officer in the unit.
Some officer cadets at the Royal Military College of Canada wrote their diaries in India ink on their T-squares examples of these from the 1880s are retained in the Colleges Museum.
There are numerous examples of fictional diaries.
One of the earliest printed fictional diaries was the humorous Diary of a Nobody by George Grossmith and his brother Weedon.
20thcentury examples include radio broadcasts e.g.
Dales Diary and published books e.g.
The Diaries of Adrian Mole.
Both prompted long running satirical features in the magazine Private Eye the former entitled Mrs. Wilsons Diary in reference to Mary Wilson, wife of Prime Minister Harold Wilson, the latter entitled The Secret Diary of John Major Aged 47¾ and written as a pastiche of the Adrian Mole diaries from the perspective of the then Prime Minister John Major.
A modern example includes the Diary of a Wimpy Kid series, where each book of the series is written in a first-person view of the main character, as if the book was an actual diary.
Girls High School is a public girls School located in Kandy, Sri Lanka.
It is the oldest school for girls in Kandy.
Honoring the relationship with the environment to become disciplined responsible mature women who will be able to serve with humanity with, but fear or Favour be open to changes and to stand up to challenges be able to hold on to their belief while respecting the convictions of others.
In 1873, the need of a school in connection with Wesleyan Mission work was urged by Samuel Langdon and so a Day and Boarding school was built in Katukele, Kandy Sri Lanka.
The school was opened in 1879 at the Wesleyan school chapel adjoining the Girls Boarding School, Katukele Kandy, under the management of Mrs. Langdon.
Miss Payne, the next principal arrived in Colombo on 31 July 1879 but left the school in 1880.
In May 1880 Miss Hay came from England and the school, which had 10 on the roll at its inception, increased to 70 and was registered to obtain a grant-in-aid from the government.
As numbers increased, in 1881 the school shifted to the more commodious precincts of the Mission in Brownrigg Street, but borderers remained at Katukele.
Classes were held behind the church.
Long desks and forms without backs and heavy pews from the church were moved weekly when classes had to take turns in writing.
With the dawn of the 20th century, under the guidance of Miss Sansom, who served for 19 years, Kandy High School became one of the leading educational instructions in Ceylon.
On March 21, 1917, the First Company of Girl Guides was formed on the Island.
Miss Sansom prepared the way for this and Miss Jane Calveriey, the Vice Principal was the First Captain.
This was followed by the 1st Brownie Company and the Ranger Company in 1918 and 1921.
In June 1920 plague broke out in Kandy and 262 students were ordered to leave the premises overnight.
The kindergarten and Std 2 shifted to Trinity College, Std 3 and 4 were housed at the YWCA opposite the police station and the senior girls at the YWCA near the Kandy Lake.
Calveriey had a busy time cycling from one place to another supervising the classes, so she invested in a scooter which made her day easier.
In 1917 the first company of Girl Guides was formed on the island, and the school was the first to play netball in Sri Lanka.
The four houses are Eaton, Langdon, Lawrance, and Sansom.
Their respective house colors are Light Blue, Dark Green, Yellow and Dark Blue.
Buddhist Society Hindu Society Christianity Society Islamic Society L.M.D.
Society Science Society Astronomical Society Photographic Club ICT Society Global Linking Club Photographic Club Y.E.S New inventers Club Interact Club Commerce Society Sinhala Society Drug prevention unit Road safety unit Tamil Society.
Buddhist Society Ever since its establishment, the Science Society is a leading academic society of Girls High School which enables all the science students to bloom up with their skills talents.
The Science Society holds the supreme leadership over, Astronomical society, Drug prevention unit, Mihiruwa nature club, Globe Society, Yowun Gaveshakayo school organization.
The science society organizes the annual science day, where inter school competitions and lectures are held parallelly creating an opportunity for all the students in the zone to enhance their knowledge and skills.
All the educated and extracurricular activities of all these societies and clubs are conducted under the unflinching, unutterable guidance of the science society of Girls High School Kandy.
The main aim of Girls High school is to produce professional and academics who can serve the country, Mother Sri Lanka as leading personalities in the society.
This unsurpassed aim is followed by The Science Society.
The Science Society is proud to mention that most of the respectable academics that we see today were active members of the Science Society of Girls High School Kandy.
Since its official launch in 1997, The Astronomical Society has successfully contributed to many events and has rendered many great endeavors not only to the school, but also to the whole nation, making the field of Astronomy more popular in Sri Lanka.
Thus, from its inception Girls High School, The Astronomical society has become one of the few leading Astronomical societies in Sri Lanka.
Since 1997 the society has arranged some activities, workshops, etc. to improve my knowledge of astronomy.
The year 2001 was a special year for society.
Because the society organized a night camp called Astro Eve 2001 for the first time in a Girls school in Sri Lanka, with all island participation.
The chief Guest was Dr Chandana Jayarathne.
In 2003 we participated in the High School Walk organized by the S.D.C O.G.A.
In 2005 The society organized a night camp called Wishwaye nim walalu sisara.
Through this camp the students could improve their knowledge of Astronomy and develop their observation skills.
Also, in 2005 the society conducted a successful stall in the educational exhibition Elysium 2005 which was organized by the school.
The year 2006 was a very crucial year for the Astronomical Society of Girls High School.
Because the society organized a combined project to develop inter school Astronomy CPDIA together with Ranabima Royal College, Kandy.
It was called Odessey has Begun.
The Society introduced the Ruth Allen challenge trophy.
By coming first in the Astronomical quiz competition, Dharmaraja College won the Ruth Allen challenge Trophy.
In 2009, The Astronomical Society took the next step in the long journey towards the invisible by organizing the second Astronomical Night, The Transition from the Invisible.
Which was another achievement made by ladies of High school through many obstacles.
Society introduced the E. LABROOY challenge trophy.
In 2010 the Astronomically Society organized the third step of the journey towards the invisible.
The third Astronomical Night organized by the society, In Quest for Visibility was held successfully.
In the year 2009, the DPU Drug Prevention Unit organized their DPU day, which was called Tempora 2009.
The program was held very successfully with the participation of many other schools.
The program also consisted of a Personality Development Program which was appreciated by all the participants.
RSU is one of the most important units, security wise in Girls High School Kandy.
This unit plays a very essential role by controlling and guiding students from Girls High School and also Vihara Maha Devi Girls College, which is located next to K.G.H.S., who cross the main road in the mornings and after school.
Netball Basketball Badminton Volleyball Tennis Table Tennis Swimming Scrabble Athletics Chess Hockey Karate.
A retail greenhouse shows some of the diversity of floricultural plants.
Floriculture, or flower farming, is a discipline of horticulture concerned with the cultivation of flowering and ornamental plants for gardens and for floristry, comprising the floral industry.
The development, via plant breeding, of new varieties is a major occupation of floriculturists.
Floriculture crops include bedding plants, houseplants, flowering garden and pot plants, cut cultivated greens, and cut flowers.
As distinguished from nursery crops, floriculture crops are generally herbaceous.
Bedding and garden plants consist of young flowering plants annuals and perennials and vegetable plants.
They are grown in cell packs in flats or trays, in pots, or in hanging baskets, usually inside a controlled environment, and sold largely for gardens and landscaping.
Pelargonium geraniums, Impatiens busy lizzies, and Petunia are the bestselling bedding plants.
The many cultivars of Chrysanthemum are the major perennial garden plant in the United States.
Flowering plants are largely sold in pots for indoor use.
The major flowering plants are poinsettias, orchids, florist chrysanthemums, and finished florist azaleas.
Foliage plants are also sold in pots and hanging baskets for indoor and patio use, including larger specimens for office, hotel, and restaurant interiors.
The production of cut flowers is specifically known as the cut flower industry.
Farming flowers and foliage employs special aspects of floriculture, such as spacing, training and pruning plants for optimal flower harvest and postharvest treatment such as chemical treatments, storage, preservation and packaging.
In Australia and the United States some species are harvested from the wild for the cut flower market.
An example of floriculture Cactus planting.
The Rottweiler is a breed of domestic dog, regarded as medium to large or large.
The dogs were known in German as Rottweiler Metzgerhund, meaning Rottweiler butchers dogs, because one of their uses was to herd livestock and pull carts laden with butchered meat to market.
This continued until the mid19th century when railways replaced droving for herding.
Rottweilers are now used as search and rescue dogs, as guide dogs for the blind, as guard dogs and police dogs.
Although a versatile breed used in recent times for many purposes, the Rottweiler is one of the oldest of herding breeds.
A multifaceted herding and stock protection dog, it is capable of working on all kinds of livestock under a variety of conditions.
The breeds' history likely dates to the Roman Empire.
It is likely that the Rottweiler is a descendant of ancient Roman drover dogs, a mastiff type dog that was a dependable, rugged dog with great intelligence and guarding instincts.
During their quest to conquer Europe, the Roman legion traveled in large numbers across the continent.
The nonexistence of refrigeration meant the soldiers had to bring herds of cattle with them on their excursions for food.
These drover dogs were not only used to keep the herds of cattle together, but to guard the supply stock at night.
74 the Roman army travelled across the Alps and into what is now southern Germany.
For the next two centuries the Roman drover dogs were continually used in herding and driving cattle for trade even after the Romans were driven out of the area by the Swabians.
A town in this region was eventually given the name Rottweil.
It became an important trade center, and the descendants of the Roman cattle dogs proved their worth by driving the cattle to market and protecting the cattle from robbers and wild animals.
The dogs are said to have been used by traveling butchers at markets during the Middle Ages to guard money pouches tied around their necks.
The dogs eventually came to be called Rottweiler Metzgerhunds, or butcher dogs.
As railroads became the primary method for moving stock to market, the need for the breed declined, as did the number of Rottweilers.
The number of Rottweilers diminished so severely that by 1882 in a dog show in Heilbronn, there was only one very poor representative of the breed.
The buildup to World War I saw a great demand for police dogs, and that led to a revival of interest in the Rottweiler.
During the First and Second World Wars, Rottweilers were put into service in various roles, including as messenger, ambulance, draught, and guard dogs.
The Deutscher Rottweiler Klub DRK, German Rottweiler Club, the first Rottweiler club in Germany, was founded on 13 January 1914, and followed by the creation of the Süddeutscher Rottweiler Klub SDRK, South German Rottweiler Club on 27 April 1915 and eventually became the IRK International Rottweiler Club.
The DRK counted around 500 Rottweilers, and the SDRK 3000 Rottweilers.
The goals of the two clubs were different.
The DRK aimed to produce working dogs and did not emphasize the morphology of the Rottweiler.
The various German Rottweiler Clubs amalgamated to form the Allgemeiner Deutscher Rottweiler Klub ADRK, General German Rottweiler Club in 1921.
This was officially recorded in the register of clubs and associations at the district court of Stuttgart on 27 January 1924.
The ADRK is recognized worldwide as the home club of the Rottweiler.
In 1931 the Rottweiler was officially recognized by the American Kennel Club.
In 1936, Rottweilers were exhibited in Britain at Crufts.
In 1966, a separate register was opened for the breed.
In fact, in the mid1990s, the popularity of the Rottweiler reached an all-time high with it being the most registered dog by the American Kennel Club.
In 2013, the American Kennel Club ranked the Rottweiler as the 9th most popular purebred in the United States.
Rottweiler breeders aim at a dog of abundant strength, black coated with clearly defined rich tan markings, whose powerful appearance does not lack nobility, and which is exceptionally well suited to being a companion, service and working dog. This breed is all about balance, endurance, proportionality, intelligence and strength.
The various standards in place for the Rottweilers' physical appearance specify these characteristics.
Head eyes Snout teeth, tongue Dewlap throat, neck skin Shoulder Elbow Forefeet Highest Point of the Rump Legs thighs and hips Hock Hind feet Withers Stifle Paws Tail.
The Rottweiler nose is well developed, broader than round, with relatively large nostrils and always black.
The muzzle should appear neither elongated nor shortened in relation to the cranial region.
The nasal bridge is broad at the base and moderately tapered.
According to the FCI Standard Rottweilers should have strong and complete dentition 42 teeth with scissor bite, the upper incisors closely overlapping the lower incisors.
The zygomatic arches should be pronounced.
The eyes should be of medium size, almond-shaped and dark brown in color.
The neck is strong, of fair length, well-muscled, slightly arched, clean, free from throatiness.
Rottweiler breed competition at the Reliant Arena American Kennel Club World Series Dog Show 23 July 2006.
The loins are short, strong and deep.
The croup is broad, of medium length, and slightly rounded, neither flat nor falling away.
The chest is roomy, broad and deep approximately 50 of the shoulder height with a well-developed fore chest and well sprung ribs.
The tail was traditionally docked at the first or second joint or Natural Bob Tail stumpy.
However, docking is now banned in many countries, and this is reflected in the FCI Standard.
It remains legal in others, notably the USA and New Zealand and this is reflected in the AKC and NZKC Standards.
When seen from the front, the front legs are straight and not placed close to each other.
The forearm, seen from the side, stands straight and vertical.
The slope of the shoulder blade is about 45 degrees.
When seen from behind, the rear legs are straight and not too close together.
When standing free, obtuse angles are formed between the dog's upper thigh and the hip bone, the upper thigh and the lower thigh, and the lower thigh and metatarsal.
The upper thigh is moderately long, broad and strongly muscled.
While walking, the Rottweilers legs, both front and hind, should move in a straightforward and backward manner.
As with the straight movement of the legs, the path the Rottweiler moves in should also be straight.
The Rottweilers gait is all about balance and effectiveness as the breed is still used as a herder today.
Rottweilers living in hot climates may have acclimatized and may be missing the undercoat.
Rottweiler coats tend to be low maintenance, although they experience heavy shedding before their season's females or seasonally males.
According to American Kennel Club breed standards, a Rottweilers coat is short and straight.
A Rottweiler is always, by any breed club standards, black with well-defined mahogany or rust colored markings that do not take up more than ten percent of the dog's body color.
All Rottweilers standard to AKC specifications have one mahogany dot above each eye on the inner brow ridge, on the cheeks, one strip on each side of the snout cheek markings do not cross over the bridge of the nose, the top of the nose should remain black.
The markings on the face should move down onto the dog's throat.
Technically a medium-large breed, according to the FCI standard the Rottweiler stands 61 to 69 cm 24 to 27 in at the withers for males, 56 to 63 cm 22 to 25 in for females, and the weight must be between 50 to 60 kg 110132 lbs. for males and 3548 kg 77105 lbs. for females.
Rottweiler puppies at 3 weeks old.
According to the FCI Standard, the Rottweiler is good-natured, placid in basic disposition, very devoted, obedient, biddable and eager to work.
Their appearance is natural and rustic, their behavior self-assured, steady and fearless.
They react to their surroundings with great alertness.
The American Kennel Club says it is.
Rottweilers are a powerful breed with well-developed genetic herding and guarding instincts.
Potentially dangerous behavior in Rottweilers usually results from irresponsible ownership, abuse, neglect, or lack of socialization and training.
However, the exceptional strength of the Rottweiler is an additional risk factor not to be neglected.
It is for this reason that breed experts declare that formal training and extensive socialization are essential for all Rottweilers.
According to the AKC, Rottweilers love their owners and may behave in a clownish manner toward family and friends, but they are also protective of their territory and do not welcome strangers until properly introduced.
Obedience training and socialization are required.
2008 study surveying breed club members found that while Rottweilers were average in aggressive bites or bites attempts towards owners and other dogs, it indicated they tend to be more aggressive than average toward strangers.
This aggression appears correlated with watchdog and territorial instincts.
According to a CDC study into fatal dog attacks on humans between 1979 and 1998, Rottweilers and pit bull type dogs were responsible for more than half 67 of all deaths.
In the years from 1993 to 1996 Rottweilers were responsible for half of all deaths.
They concluded that fatal attacks on humans appear to be a breed specific problem pit bull type dogs and Rottweilers.... They also wrote that.
It is extremely unlikely that they accounted for anywhere near 60 of dogs in the United States during that same period and, thus, there appears to be a breed specific problem with fatalities...
According to the American Kennel Club, Rottweilers have a natural gathering style with a strong desire to control.
They generally show a loose eye and have a great amount of force while working well off the stock.
They make much use of their ability to intimidate.
The Rottweiler often carries the head on an even plane with the back or carries the head up but with the neck and shoulders lowered.
Some females lower the entire front end slightly when using their eyes.
Males also do this when working far off the stock in an open field.
The Rottweiler has a reasonably good natural balance, force barks when necessary, and when working cattle uses a very intimidating charge.
There is a natural change in forcefulness when herding sheep.
When working cattle, it may use its body and shoulders and for this reason should be used on horned stock with caution.
Some growers have found that Rottweilers are especially suited to move stubborn stock that simply ignore Border Collies, Kelpies, and others.
Rottweilers use their bodies to physically force the stubborn animal to do its bidding if necessary.
When working with sheep, the Rottweiler shows a gathering fetching style and reams directions easily.
It drives sheep with ease.
In some cases, Rottweilers have begun herding cattle without any experience at all.
If worked on the same stock for any length of time, the Rottweiler tends to develop a bond with the stock and will become quite affectionate with them as long as they do as it directs.
The Rottweiler is also exceptionally suited for and is commonly used in the dog sport of Schutzhund.
For this reason, the various Rottweiler breed clubs have had Xray testing regimes in place for many years.
Osteochondritis dissecans, a condition affecting the shoulder joints, can also be a problem due to the rapid growth rate of breeding.
A reputable breeder will have the hips and elbows of all breeding stock x-rayed and read by a recognized specialist and will have paperwork to prove it.
They will also have certificates that their breeding animals do not have entropion or ectropion and that they have full and complete dentition with a scissor bite.
The Rottweiler is very prone to cancer which is among the most common causes of early death in Rottweilers.
For unknown reasons, Rottweilers are more susceptible than other breeds to becoming infected with parvovirus, a highly contagious and deadly disease of puppies and young dogs.
Parvovirus can be easily prevented by following a veterinarians recommended vaccine protocol.
If overfed or under exercised, Rottweilers are prone to obesity.
Some of the consequences of obesity can be very serious, including arthritis, breathing difficulties, diabetes, heart failure, reproductive problems, skin disease, reduced resistance to disease and overheating caused by the thick jacket of fat under the skin.
Breed surveys in the US, UK and Denmark, and UK vet data puts the average lifespan of Rottweilers at 8 to 10 years.
Deforestation is one of the most serious environmental issues in Sri Lanka.
In the 1920s, the island had a 49 percent forest cover but by 2005 this had fallen by approximately 20 percent.
Between 1990 and 2000, Sri Lanka lost an average of 26,800 ha of forests per year.
This amounts to an average annual deforestation rate of 1.14.
Between 2000 and 2005 the rate accelerated to 1.43 per annum.
However, with a long history of policy and laws towards environmental protection, deforestation rates of primary cover have actually decreased 35 since the end of the 1990s thanks to a strong history of conservation measures.
The problem of deforestation in Sri Lanka is not as significant in the southern mountainous regions as it is in northern Sri Lanka, largely due to the nature of environmental protection.
A vegetable farm revealing the way in which forest cover has been removed.
The sale of timber is a part of the national economy to raise revenue.
The country is a major producer of tea, and the land required for tea plantations is substantial.
Population pressure is also a significant factor as is the removal of forested areas to make way for irrigation networks and paddy fields which was major process in the 1980s.
Aside from the environmental implications deforestation in Sri Lanka has caused such as flooding, landslides and soil erosion from exposure of the deforested areas it is also the primary threat to the survival of Sri Lankas biodiversity.
Sri Lanka has 751 known species of amphibians, birds, mammals and reptiles of which 21.7 are endemic, and over 3314 species of vascular plants, of which 26.9 are endemic.
The government of Sri Lanka and international environmental organizations have made several steps to address the problem over the years, establishing national parks, reserves and sanctuaries, which now cover as much as 15 percent of the islands total area as of 2007.
The Sinharaja Forest Reserve, which was established in 1978 to protect the nearly extinct tropical lowland rain forest, was flagged as a World Heritage Site in 1988.
History of environmental law and policy.
The Sinharaja Forest Reserve, protecting tropical lowland rain forest in Sri Lanka.
The history of environmental policy and law in Sri Lanka however goes back much further in history.
In 1848, Timber Ordinance No.24 was signed for the reservation of forests, largely for timber production.
In 1873, Hooker advocated the protection of natural forests above 5000 feet as climatic reserves and in 1938 a law was passed prohibiting the removal of forest above 5000 feet.
In 1885 Forest Ordinance No.
10 for the Conservation of forests saw some protection of forests primarily for sustainable wood production but also some protection of wildlife in sanctuaries.
This was developed further in 1907 with Forest Ordinance No 16 with some protection of forests and their products in reserved forests and village forests, again for the controlled exploitation of timber.
In 1929 the first authoritative forest policy statement was given in regard to species protection and in 1937 the Fauna and Flora Protection Ordinance No.2 was signed with the protection of wildlife in national reserves.
However, this was restricted to sanctuaries, in that habitats were only protected on state land, with complete freedom to exploit privately owned land.
In 1964 Amendment Act No.44 in 1964 saw the nature reserve and jungle corridor formally recognized as categories of Sri Lankas protected areas national reserve.
In 1970 Amendment Act No.1 saw the creation of an Intermediate zone to provide for controlled hunting, and the 1969 UNESCO Biological Program and 1975 UNESCO Man and Biosphere Program saw a move towards the marking of bioclimatic zones in Sri Lanka and new reserves proposed.
In 1982 the Mahaweli Environmental Project established a network of protected areas to protect the effects of deforestation on wildlife and the upper catchments of the Mahaweli Ganga river.
In 1988 the National Heritage Wilderness Area Act No.3 established a national heritage protection scheme of state land for those forests possessing a unique ecosystem, genetic resources, or outstanding natural features.
A tea plantation in Sri Lanka.
In 1990, the National Policy for Wildlife Conservation was approved by the Sri Lankan cabinet with the prime objectives to the sustainability of ecosystems and ecological processes and the preservation of genetic diversity.
The government also introduced a logging ban that was implemented in all natural forests in Sri Lanka under the Forestry Sector Development Program.
In 1993 Amendment Act No.
49 also added Refuge, marine reserves and buffer zones as additional formal categories to the definition of the national reserve.
Deforestation rates of primary cover have decreased 35 since the end of the 1990s following the combination of all of these policies and laws and notably the National Forest Policy of 1995 which is explained below.
Government policies are focused primarily on timber production and tree plantations.
The Sri Lankan government working in conjunction with multinational institutions have seen a major change in timber harvesting in Sri Lanka for the cause of sustainable development.
Commercial plantations have gradually been brought under management system in Sri Lanka to produce wood in an economically efficient and sustainable way.
The harvesting, processing and the sale of wood products from state forests is conducted by the State Timber Corporation, which the Sri Lankan government owns.
In the 1980s the cause progressed significantly with the Asian Development Bank ADB funding the Community Forestry Project CFP which concentrated on the development of fuelwood plantations and agroforestry in 5 of the 25 districts of Sri Lanka.
Other major sustainable forest plantation projects were also funded by IDA World Bank, USAID and numerous integrated rural development projects operating in more than 10 districts of Sri Lanka.
Forest en route from Batalegala to Kadugannawa.
In 1995, the Sri Lankan government approved the National Forest Policy, with the specific focus on conservation and sustainability.
The National Forest Policy, aside from protecting the environment directly, advocates increased community involvement and unity in forest management, providing leases to the private sector to manage multiple use production forests.
The scope of the policy includes the biophysical, environmental, socio political and economic components of forestry in Sri Lanka.
The policy stressed the need to conserve biodiversity, soil and water resources and it emphasizes the central importance of retaining the present natural forest cover in sustaining an ecological balance in the ecosystems of the island.
Under the policy, the remaining natural forests are to be used sustainably to provide for the growing demand for bioenergy, wood and non-wood forest products.
The policy has also identified the need for collaboration to make sustainable forest management a reality, and has guided the state sector, farmers, NGOs and small and medium scale commercial entrepreneurs towards community organization in protecting the forests whilst meeting wood, raw material and the bioenergy requirements.
Aerial view of a reservoir and paddy fields.
While illegal logging in Sri Lanka is not a major problem as it is in many countries, deforestation has still affected the lives of everyday people in some parts of Sri Lanka where removed forests meant that greater time and energy is spent gathering firewood typically by women who have to travel relatively long distances, affecting their health and wellbeing.
Any degradation of the forest resource in Sri Lanka is dynamically related to the increasing demand for timber and fuel wood.
Central to the sustainability of the forests of Sri Lanka in the future is the rate of population pressure and economic growth.
Not only will a growing population demand more fuel, but they will also place a higher demand for housing construction materials with wood.
The increase in the demand for logs and poles is estimated from about 2.0 million M3 in 1995 to 2.7 million M3 in 2020 and during this period the requirement of biomass energy will increase from 9.0 to 9.7 million tons.
Conflicts may arise between the goals of conservation and the demands for production that such pressures create.
While a significant area of land is in practice protected by the central government, the government has often been unable to extend effective and universal control over every square kilometer of its protected areas.
Villagers have been known to cut down forest illegally with serious pressure to meet energy needs, particularly in northern Sri Lanka, but overall illegal logging in Sri Lanka is relatively low compared to many countries affected by this environmental problem at the beginning of the 21st century.
A woman brushing her teeth.
Tooth brushing is the act of scrubbing teeth with a toothbrush equipped with toothpaste.
Since only two thirds of the outer tooth can be reached by a toothbrush, interdental cleaning with floss or an interdental brush can usefully accompany tooth brushing.
Together, these two activities are the primary means of cleaning teeth, one of the main aspects of oral hygiene.
Brushing teeth properly helps prevent cavities, and periodontal, or gum disease, which causes at least one-third of adult tooth loss.
If teeth are not brushed correctly and frequently, it could lead to the calcification of saliva minerals, forming tartar.
Tartar hardens then referred to as calculus if not removed every 24 hours.
Poor dental health has been associated with heart disease and shortened life expectancy.
A photo from 1899 showing the use of a toothbrush.
As long ago as 3000 BC, the ancient Egyptians constructed crude toothbrushes from twigs and leaves to clean their teeth.
Similarly, other cultures such as the Greeks, Romans, Arabs and Indians cleaned their teeth with twigs.
Some would fray one end of the twig so that it could penetrate between the teeth more effectively.
In the 7th century, Prophet Muhammad became the first person to command tooth brushing upon the entire community regardless of age.
He used to clean his teeth upon waking, before every prayer and before sleeping.
Following his advice Muslims clean their teeth every morning and evening.
While languishing in jail, Thomas Addis decided to drill holes into a sheep's tibia, and pulled through the bristles of boar hair.
While he was credited with the discovery of the modern toothbrush, a similar design has since been discovered in China from 1400.
In the United States, although toothbrushes were available at the end of the 19th century, the practice did not become widespread until after the Second World War, when US soldiers continued the toothbrushing that had been required during their military service. Better source needed.
Although there is a consensus that a thorough toothbrushing once a day is sufficient for maintaining oral health, most dentists recommend patients brush twice a day since a sufficient level of thoroughness in brushing is not normally achieved.
The front and backs of teeth should be brushed with the toothbrush at a 45-degree angle towards the gumline, moving the brush in a back and forth rolling motion that makes contact with the gumline and tooth.
To brush the backs of the front teeth the brush should be held vertically to the tooth and moved in an up and down motion.
The chewing surfaces of the teeth are brushed with a forward and back motion, with the toothbrush pointing straight at the tooth.
Toothpaste, often containing fluoride, is commonly added to a toothbrush to aid in cleaning.
Toothbrushes come in manual and electric varieties.
Although there is conflicting evidence as to which is more effective, most evidence points to electric toothbrushes with an oscillatory motion being more effective than manual toothbrushes, with toothbrushes lacking an oscillatory motion being equivalent.
Both manual and electric toothbrushes are effective, however, and it is often recommended that people use whichever one they feel comfortable with and will be more likely to regularly brush with.
Toothbrushes are offered with varying textures of bristles and come in many different forms and sizes.
Most dentists recommend using a toothbrush labelled soft, since firmer bristled toothbrushes can damage tooth enamel and irritate gums as indicated by the American Dental Association. Toothbrushes are often made from synthetic fibers, although natural toothbrushes are also known in many parts of the world.
Those with dentures may also brush their teeth with traditional toothbrushes, specially made denture brushes or denture cleaners.
Toothpaste is a paste or gel dentifrice used to clean and improve the aesthetic appearance and health of teeth.
It is almost always used in conjunction with a toothbrush.
Toothpaste use can promote good oral hygiene it can aid in the removal of dental plaque and food from the teeth, it can aid in the elimination and masking of halitosis when tonsil stones are not the cause, and it can deliver active ingredients such as fluoride to prevent tooth and gum Gingiva disease.
Tooth powder or toothpaste powder is an alternative to toothpaste.
It may be recommended for people with sensitive teeth.
Tooth powder typically does not contain the chemical sodium lauryl sulphate which can be a skin irritant. Better source needed the function of sodium lauryl sulphate is to form suds when teeth are brushed.
Natural hazard events can be grouped into two broad categories.
Geophysical hazards encompass geological and meteorological phenomena such as earthquakes, coastal erosion, volcanic eruption, cyclonic storms, and drought.
Biological hazards can refer to a diverse array of diseases and infestation.
Other natural hazards such as floods and wildfires can result from a combination of geological, hydrological, and climatic factors.
Many geophysical hazards are interrelated for example, submarine earthquakes can cause tsunamis, and hurricanes can lead to coastal flooding and erosion.
It is possible that some natural hazards are intertemporally correlated as well.
A concrete example of the division between a natural hazard and a natural disaster is that the 1906 San Francisco earthquake was a disaster, whereas living on a fault line is a hazard.
An avalanche occurs when a large snow or rock mass slides down a mountainside.
An avalanche is an example of a gravity current consisting of granular material.
In an avalanche, lots of material or mixtures of different types of material fall or slide rapidly under the force of gravity.
Avalanches are often classified by the size or severity of consequences resulting from the event.
An earthquake is a phenomenon that results from a sudden release of stored energy that radiates seismic waves.
At the Earth's surface, earthquakes may manifest with a shaking or displacement of the ground. When an earthquake occurs on the seafloor, the resulting displacement of water can sometimes result in a tsunami.
Most of the world's earthquakes 90, and 81 of the largest take places in the 40,000kmlong, horseshoe shaped zone called the circum, Pacific seismic belt, also known as the Pacific Ring of Fire, which for the most part bounds the Pacific Plate.
Many earthquakes happen each day, few of which are large enough to cause significant damage.
Coastal erosion is a physical process by which shorelines in coastal areas around the world shift and change, primarily in response to waves and currents that can be influenced by tides and storm surge.
Coastal erosion can result from Longterm processes as well as from episodic events such as tropical cyclones or other severe storm events.
A lahar is a type of natural event closely related to a volcanic eruption and involves a large amount of material originating from an eruption of a glaciated volcano, including mud from the melted ice, rock, and ash sliding down the side of the volcano at a rapid pace.
These flows can destroy entire towns in seconds and kill thousands of people, and form flood basalt.
This is based on natural events.
A landslide is a mass displacement of sediment, usually down a slope.
A sinkhole is a localized depression in the surface topography, usually caused by the collapse of a subterranean structure such as a cave.
Although rare, large sinkholes that develop suddenly in populated areas can lead to the collapse of buildings and other structures.
They range from daily small eruptions which occur in places like Kilauea in Hawaii, to mega colossal eruptions where the volcano expels at least 1,000 cubic kilometers of material from super volcanoes like Lake Taupo 26,500 years ago and Yellowstone Caldera.
According to the Toba catastrophe theory, 70 to 75 thousand years ago, a super volcanic event at Lake Toba reduced the human population to 10,000 or even 1,000 breeding pairs, creating a bottleneck in human evolution.
Some eruptions form pyroclastic flows, which are high temperature clouds of ash and steam that can travel down mountainsides at speed exceeding an airliner.
A blizzard is a severe winter storm with icy and windy conditions characterized by low temperature, strong wind and heavy snow.
Scientists warn that global warming and climate change may result in more extensive droughts in coming years.
These extensive droughts are likely to occur within the African continent due to its very low precipitation levels and high climate.
A hailstorm is a natural hazard where a thunderstorm produces numerous hailstones which damage the location in which they fall.
Hailstorms can be especially devastating to farm fields, ruining crops and damaging equipment.
A heat wave is a hazard characterized by heat which is considered extreme and unusual in the area in which it occurs.
Heat waves are rare and require specific combinations of weather events to take place, and may include temperature inversions, katabatic winds, or other phenomena.
There is potential for longer-term events causing global warming, including stadial events the opposite to glacial ice age events, or through human induced climatic warming.
It is caused by evaporated water that comes off of the ocean and becomes a storm.
The Coriolis effect causes the storms to spin.74 mph 119 kmh.
Hurricane is used for these phenomena in the Atlantic and eastern Pacific Oceans, tropical cyclone in the Indian, and typhoon in the western Pacific.
An ice storm is a particular weather event in which precipitation falls as ice, due to atmosphere conditions.
Tornadoes are violent, rotating columns of air which can blow at speeds between 50 mph and 300 mph, and possibly higher.
Tornadoes can occur one at a time or can occur in large tornado outbreaks associated with supercells or in other large areas of thunderstorm development.
Waterspouts are tornadoes occurring over tropical waters in light rain conditions.
Climate change is a Longterm hazard which can increase or decrease the risk of other weather hazards, and also directly endangers property due to sea level rise and biological organisms due to habitat destruction.
Geomagnetic storms can disrupt or damage technological infrastructure and disorient species with magnetoception.
A tornado formed over the water.
A flood results from an overflow of water beyond its normal confines of a body of water such as a lake, or the accumulation of water over land areas.
Wildfire is a fire that burnt in an uncontrolled and unplanned manner.
Wildfires can result from natural occurrences such as lightning strikes or from human activity.
Disease is a natural hazard that can be enhanced by human factors such as urbanization or poor sanitation.
Disease affecting multiple people can be termed an outbreak or epidemic.
In some cases, a hazard exists in that a humanmade defense against disease could fail, for example through antibiotic resistance.
Each of the natural hazard types outlined above have very different characteristics, in terms of the spatial and temporal scales they influence, hazard frequency and return period, and measures of intensity and impact.
These complexities result in single hazard assessments being commonplace, where the hazard potential from one particular hazard type is constrained.
In these examples, hazards are often treated as isolated or independent.
Many examples exist of one natural hazard triggering or increasing the probability of one or more other natural hazards.
For example, an earthquake may trigger landslides, whereas a wildfire may increase the probability of landslides being generated in the future.
A detailed review of such interactions across 21 natural hazards identified 90 possible interactions of varying likelihood and spatial importance.
There may also be interactions between these natural hazards and anthropic processes.
For example, groundwater abstraction may trigger groundwater related subsidence.
Effective hazard analysis in any given area, e.g., for the purposes of disaster risk reduction should ideally include an examination of all relevant hazards and their interactions.
In 2000, the United Nations launched the International Early Warning Program to address the underlying causes of vulnerability and to build disaster resilient communities by promoting increased awareness of the importance of Disaster Risk Reduction as an integral component of sustainable development, with the goal of reducing human, economic and environmental losses due to hazards of all kinds UNISDR, 2000.
The 20062007 United Nations International Disaster Reduction Day theme is Disaster reduction education begins in school.
The Foundation of Public Safety Professionals has launched an international campaign giving everybody a chance to have their say, though their international open essay or documentary competition Disaster Risk Reduction Education Begins at School.
Cultural heritage tourism or just heritage tourism or diaspora tourism is a branch of tourism oriented towards the cultural heritage of the location where tourism is occurring.
The National Trust for Historic Preservation in the United States defines heritage tourism as traveling to experience the places, artifacts and activities that authentically represent the stories and people of the past, and heritage tourism can include cultural, historic, and natural resources.
Culture has always been a major object of travel, as the development of the Grand Tour from the 16th century onwards attests.
In the 20th century, some people have claimed that culture ceased to be the objective of tourism is now culture.
Cultural attractions play a key role in tourism at all levels, from the global highlights of world culture to attractions that underpin local identities.
According to the Weiler and Hall, culture, heritage, and the arts have long contributed to the appeal of tourist destinations.
However, in recent years culture has been rediscovered as an important marketing tool to attract those travelers with special interests in heritage and arts.
According to Hollinshead, cultural heritage tourism defines cultural heritage tourism as the fastest growing segment of the tourism industry because there is a trend toward an increase specialization among tourists.
This trend is evident in the rise in the volume of tourists who seek adventure, culture, history, archaeology, and interaction with local people.
Cultural heritage tourism is important for assorted reasons it has a positive economic and social impact, it establishes and reinforces identity, it helps preserve the cultural heritage, with culture as an instrument it facilitates harmony and understanding among people, it supports culture and helps renew tourism Richards, 1996.
As Benjamin Porter and Noel B.
Salazar has ethnographically documented; however, cultural heritage tourism can also create tensions and even conflict between the different stakeholders involved Porter and Salazar 2005.
Cultural heritage tourism has several objectives that must be met within the context of sustainable development such as the conservation of cultural resources, accurate interpretation of resources, authentic visitors experience, and the stimulation of the earned revenues of cultural resources.
We can see, therefore, that cultural heritage tourism is not only concerned with identification, management, and protection of the heritage values but it must also be involved in understanding the impact of tourism on communities and regions, achieving economic and social benefits, providing financial resources for protection, as well as marketing and promotion.
Heritage tourism involves visiting historical or industrial sites that may include old canals, railways, battlegrounds, etc.
The overall purpose is to gain an appreciation of the past.
It also refers to the marketing of a location to members of a diaspora who have distant family roots there.
Decolonization and immigration form the major background of much contemporary heritage tourism.
Falling travel costs have also made heritage tourism possible for more people.
Another form involves religious travel or pilgrimages.
Many Catholics from around the world come to the Vatican and other sites such as Lourdes or Fátima.
Islam commands its followers to take the hajj to Mecca, thus differentiating it from tourism in the usual sense, though the trip can also be a culturally important event for the pilgrim.
Heritage tourism focuses on certain historical events, rather than presenting a balanced view of that historical period.
Its aim may not always be the presentation of accurate historical facts, as opposed to economically developing the site and surrounding area.
As a result, heritage tourism can be seen as a blend of education, entertainment, preservation, and profit.
Anthropology and Ethnology were two major disciplines interested in the life of aborigines, their customs, and political structures.
Although, the firsts fieldworkers were not interested in expanding the colonization of main European powers, the fact was that their notes, books and fieldwork notes were employed by colonial officials to understand the aboriginal mind.
From that moment on, anthropology developed a strange fascination for the Other´s culture.
The concepts of heritage and colonization were inextricably intertwined.
Maximiliano Korstanje argues that literature played a vital role in configuring the image of Others in the western imaginary, and this was the rub, aborigines internalized the Western stereotypes about their cultures.
In the threshold of history, the meaning of heritage and patrimony accompanied the interests of the European elite and their attachment to colonial order.
The concept of heritage tourism has been recently criticized by some Latin American anthropologists.
These radical voices focus on the ideological discourse that marks some human groups, or ethnicities within heritage tourism while others are excluded.
White elite expands its hegemony by marking Others as different at the time it remains unmarked as normal.
Tourism is based on the quest exploitation for otherness.
By reconsidering what is and not heritage tourism consists in an ideological mechanism of discipline exerted by modern nation-states over aboriginal groups.
Community tourism in Sierra Leone The story of a community in Sierra Leone trying to manage tourism in a socially responsible manner.
If the indigenous people are not a part of the majority, or ruling power in the country, they may not benefit from the tourism as greatly as they should.
For example, in Mexico tourism has increased because of the predicted end of the Maya Calendar.
However, the indigenous Maya are not benefitting from the increased traffic through the ruins and other cultural landmarks.
In some cultures, the peacock is also a symbol of pride or vanity, due to the way the bird struts and shows off its plumage.
During the Medieval period, various types of fowl were consumed as food, with the poorer populations such as serfs consuming more common birds, such as chicken.
However, the wealthier gentry were privileged to eat less usual foods, such as swan, and even peafowl were consumed.
On a kings table, a peacock would be for ostentatious display as much as for culinary consumption.
Peafowl Varieties Database Etymology of the word peacock Peafowl videos, photos, and sounds on the Internet Bird Collection.
Behavioral Ecologists Elucidated How Peahens Choose Their Mates, And Why, an article at Science Daily.
The Peafowl include two Asiatic bird species the blue or Indian peafowl originally of India and Sri Lanka and the green peafowl of Myanmar, Indochina, and Java and one African species the Congo peafowl native only to the Congo Basin of bird in the genera Pavo and Afropavo of the Phasianidae family, the pheasants and their allies, known for the males piercing call and, among the Asiatic species, his extravagant eye spotted tail covert feathers which he displays as part of a courtship ritual.
The term peacock is properly reserved for the male the female is known as a peahen, and the immature offspring are sometimes called peachicks.
The functions of the elaborate iridescent coloration and large train of peacocks have been the subject of extensive scientific debate.
Charles Darwin suggested they served to attract females, and the showy features of the males had evolved by sexual selection.
More recently, Amotz Zahavi proposed in his handicap theory that these features acted as honest signals of the male's fitness, since less fit males would be disadvantaged by the difficulty of surviving with such large and conspicuous structures.
The Indian peacock has iridescent blue and green plumage.
The peacock tail, known as a train, consists not of tail quill feathers, but highly elongated upper tail coverts.
These feathers are marked with eyespots, best seen when a peacock fans his tail.
The green peafowl differs from the Indian peafowl in that the male has green and gold plumage with black wings with a sheen of blue.
Unlike the Indian peafowl, the green peahen is similar to the male, only having shorter upper tail coverts, a copperier neck, and overall, less iridescence.
The Congo peacock male does not display his covert feathers but uses his actual tail feathers during courtship displays.
These feathers are much shorter than those of the Indian and green species, and the ocelli are much less pronounced.
Females of the Indian and African species are dull grey and brown.
Chicks of both sexes in all the species are cryptically colored.
They vary between yellow and tawny, usually with patches of darker brown or light tan and dirty white ivory.
Occasionally, peafowl appears with white plumage.
Although albino peafowl do exist, this is quite rare and almost all white peafowl are not, in fact, albinos they have a genetic mutation called leucism which causes an overall reduction in pigment which, in peafowl, causes a complete lack of pigment in their plumage, but still leaves them with blue eyes.
By contrast, true albino peafowl have a complete lack of melanin and therefore have white plumage, but also an albinos characteristic red or pink eyes.
Leucistic peachicks are born yellow and become fully white as they mature.
Optical interference Bragg reflections based on regular, periodic nanostructures of the barbule's fiber like components of the feathers produce the peacocks colors.
Slight changes to the spacing of these barbules result in different colors.
Brown feathers are a mixture of red and blue one color is created by the periodic structure and the other is created by a Fabry Perot interference peak from reflections from the outer and inner boundaries.
Charles Darwin first theorized in On the Origin of Species that the peafowl's plumage had evolved through sexual selection.
This idea was expanded upon in his second book, The Descent of Man and Selection in Relation to Sex.
Sexual selection is the ability of male and female organisms to exert selective forces on each other with regard to mating activity.
The strongest driver of sexual selection is gamete size.
In general, eggs are bigger than sperm and females produce fewer gametes than males.
This leads to eggs being a bigger investment, and therefore to females being choosy about the traits that will be passed on to her offspring by males.
Peacock seen from behind displaying to attract peahen in foreground.
Some of these suggest direct benefits to females, such as protection, shelter, or nuptial gifts that sway the female's choice of mate.
Another hypothesis is that females choose mates with good genes.
Males with more exaggerated secondary sexual characteristics, such as bigger, brighter peacock trains, tend to have better genes in the peahens' eyes.
These better genes will directly benefit her offspring, as well as her fitness and reproductive success.
Merle Jacobs food courtship theory states that peahens are attracted to peacocks for the resemblance of their eye spots to blue berries.
It has been suggested that a peacock's train, loud call, and fearless behavior have been formed by natural selection not sexual selection and served as an aposematic display to intimidate predators and rivals.
Eyespot on a peacock's train feather.
A peacock's copulation success rate depends on the colors of his eyespots ocelli and the angle at which they are displayed.
A study by Roslyn Dakin and Robert Montgomerie showed that the angle at which the ocelli were displayed during courtship was a more important factor in a peahen's choice of males than train size or number of ocelli.
Some studies suggest that the intricacy of the song produced by displaying peacocks proved to be impressive to peafowl.
Singing in peacocks usually occurs just before, just after, or sometimes during copulation.
Alerting other males of mating may reduce interference or synchronize breeding times. Clarification needed.
All species of peafowl are believed to be polygamous.
In common with other members of the Galliformes, the males possess metatarsal spurs or thorns on their legs used during intraspecific territorial fights.
A green peafowl Pavo muticus.
Peafowls are omnivores and eat most plant parts, flower petals, seed heads, insects and other arthropods, reptiles, and amphibians.
Wild peafowl look for their food scratching around in leaf litter either early in the morning or at dusk.
They retreat to the shade and security of the woods for the hottest portion of the day.
Domesticated peafowl may also eat bread and cracked grain such as oats and corn, cheese, cooked rice and sometimes cat food.
It is noticed by keepers that Peafowl love protein rich food including larvae that infest granaries, different kinds of meat, as well as vegetables including dark leafy greens, broccoli, carrots, beans, beets, and peas.
They also relish many fruits.
Lord Kartikeya with his wives in his peacock mount.
In the 1486 painting Annunciation with St.
Emidius by Carlo Crivelli, a peacock is sitting on the roof above the praying Virgin Mary.
In Hindu culture, the peacock is the mount of the Lord Kartikeya, the god of war.
A demon king, Surapadman, was split into two by Karthikeya and the merciful lord converted the two parts as an integral part of himself, one becoming a peacock his mount and another a rooster adorning his flag.
The peacock displays the divine shape of Omkara when it spreads its magnificent plumes into a full-blown circular form.
Peacock feathers also adorn the crest of Lord Krishna, an avatar of Lord Vishnu, one of the trimurti.
The peacock is still used in the Easter season, especially in the east.
The eyes in the peacocks' tail feathers symbolize the all-seeing Christian God and in some interpretations the Church.
A peacock drinking from a vase is used as a symbol of a Christian believer drinking from the waters of eternal life.
The peacock can also symbolize the cosmos if one interprets its tail with its many eyes as the vault of heaven dotted by the sun, moon, and stars.
Though the peafowl is native to India, in Babylonia and Persia the peacock is seen as a guardian to royalty and is often seen in engravings upon the thrones of royalty.
Nonetheless, using the peacock as the symbol of royalty has an old and distinguished pedigree in India too.
The first great dynasty unifying the Indian subcontinent in the 3rd century BCE were known as the Maurya, lit.
of the peacock, named after the patriarch Chandragupta Maurya.
Rosmarinus officinalis, commonly known as rosemary, is a woody, perennial herb with fragrant, evergreen, needlelike leaves and white, pink, purple, or blue flowers, native to the Mediterranean region.
It is a member of the mint family Lamiaceae, which includes many other herbs.
Rosemary has a fibrous root system.
Rosmarinus officinalis is one of 24 species in the genus Rosmarinus.
The genus was named by the 18thcentury naturalist and founding taxonomist Carl Linnaeus.
It can withstand droughts, surviving a severe lack of water for lengthy periods.
Forms range from upright to trailing the upright forms can reach 1.5 m tall, rarely 2 m.
The leaves are evergreen, 24 cm 0.81.6 in long and 25 mm broad, green above, and white below, with dense, short, woolly hair.
The plant flowers in spring and summer in temperate climates, but the plants can be in constant bloom in warm climates flowers are white, pink, purple or deep blue.
The rosemary also has a tendency to flower outside its normal flowering season. It has been known to flower as late as early December, and as early as mid-February.
The Virgin Mary is said to have spread her blue cloak over a white blossomed rosemary bush when she was resting, and the flowers turned blue.
The shrub then became known as the Rose of Mary.
Rosemary is used as a decorative plant in gardens where it may have pest control effects.
The leaves are used to flavor various foods, such as stuffings and roast meats.
Since it is attractive and drought tolerant, rosemary is used as an ornamental plant in gardens and for xeriscape landscaping, especially in regions of Mediterranean climate.
It is considered easy to grow and Pest resistant.
Rosemary can grow quite large and retain attractiveness for many years, can be pruned into formal shapes and low hedges, and has been used for topiary.
It will not withstand waterlogging, and some varieties are susceptible to frost.
It grows best in neutral to alkaline conditions pH 77.8 with average fertility.
It can be propagated from an existing plant by clipping a shoot from a soft new growth 1015 cm 46 in long, stripping a few leaves from the bottom, and planting it directly into soil.
Numerous cultivars have been selected for garden use.
The following are frequently sold.
They have a bitter, astringent taste and a characteristic aroma which complements many cooked foods.
Herbal tea can be made from the leaves.
When roasted with meats or vegetables, the leaves impart a mustardlike aroma with an additional fragrance of charred wood compatible with barbecued foods.
In amounts typically used to flavor foods, such as one teaspoon 1 gram, rosemary provides no nutritional value.
Rosemary extract has been shown to improve the shelf life and heat stability of omega 3rich oils which are prone to rancidity.
Rosemary oil is used for the purpose of fragrant body perfumes or to emit an aroma into a room.
It is also burnt as incense and used in shampoos and cleaning products.
Rosemary contains a number of phytochemicals, including rosmarinic acid, camphor, caffeic acid, ursolic acid, betulinic acid, and the antioxidants carnosic acid and carnosol.
In traditional medicine of India, extracts and essential oil from flowers and leaves are used to treat a variety of disorders.
In the Middle Ages, rosemary was associated with wedding ceremonies.
The bride would wear a rosemary headpiece, and the groom and wedding guests would all wear a sprig of rosemary.
From this association with weddings, rosemary was thought to be a love charm.
In myths, rosemary has a reputation for improving memory and has been used as a symbol for remembrance during war commemorations and funerals in Europe and Australia.
Mourners would throw it into graves as a symbol of remembrance for the dead.
In Shakespeares Hamlet, Ophelia says, Theres rosemary, thats for remembrance. Hamlet, iv.
Hungary water was first prepared for the Queen of Hungary Elisabeth of Poland to ...
renovate vitality of paralyzed limbs ...
It was used externally and prepared by mixing fresh rosemary tops into spirits of wine.
Don Quixote Part One, Chapter XVII mixes it in his recipe of the miraculous balm of Fierabras.
String hoppers is a traditional Tamil, Kerala, Kodava, Tulu and Sri Lankan food consisting of rice flour pressed into noodle form and then steamed.
The Story of our Food, a book written by K. Achaya, an eminent Indian food scientist and food historian, states that Idiyappam and Appam were already known in ancient Tamil country around 1st century AD, as per references in the Sangam literature.
The name idiyappam derives from the Tamil meaning broken down, and appam, meaning pancake.
Pronounced as edi appam The dish is also, frequently, called noolappam or noolputtu meaning string or thread, especially in Kodagu.
In coastal areas of Karnataka, it is also termed semige.
It is common in Malaysia, where it is called putumayam.
Forming noodlelike pattern with rice flour paste before steam boiling Idiyappam.
It is made of rice flour or ragi flour Finger millet flour, salt and water.
It is generally served as the main course at breakfast or dinner together with a curry potato, egg, fish or meat curry and coconut chutney.
It is served with coconut milk and sugar in Sri Lanka and in the Malabar region of Kerala.
Mix rice flour with hot water, optionally add ghee, season with salt.
Knead into a smooth dough.
Fill an idiyappam press or a sieve with the dough and press the noodles onto banana leaves or directly into an idli steamer.
In his novel House of blue mangoes, David Davidar mentions Idiyappam.
The design, manufacture and export of textiles and apparel products is one of the biggest industries in Sri Lanka, and one which plays a key role in advancing the countrys economy.
The apparel industry of Sri Lanka employs about 15 of the countrys workforce, accounting for about half of the countrys total exports, and Sri Lanka is among the top apparelproducing countries in the world relative to its population.
Sri Lankas apparel industry began to grow significantly in the 1980s as an alternative to Indias garment manufacturers, because of its open economic policy as well as the trade and investment friendly environment.
Under the Multi Fibre Agreement, quota regime Sri Lanka became an attractive new venue for businesses.
In 1985, Martin Trust, one of the pioneers in the development of speed sourcing for the American fashion retail sector, began working with Sri Lankan textile and apparel companies.
In 1986 and 1987 he established joint venture partnerships with The Omar Group formerly known as LM Apparels and part of the Brandix group and The Amalean Group which helped make the country more competitive through knowledge transfers and technology, attracting further foreign investors.
These were the first of nearly two dozen joint venture companies in Sri Lanka which made the country competitive in the garment sector.
Including Trusts partnership with German brassiere maker, Triumph International, and Sri Lankan company, MAS Holdings, to create a new venture called Bodyline.
When the US and other countries eliminated quantitative restrictions on garments produced in China, many garment facilities in Sri Lanka were consolidated.
As of 2010, most of the exports to the US are from MAS or Brandix, with smaller amounts coming from the Hirdaramani Group Jay Jay Mills Groups.
Together, these three companies account for a majority of the value of exports of garments to the US market.
Exports of apparel per capita to the US market from leading garmentmanufacturing countries, 19892009.
Over the next few decades, the apparel industry grew to represent Sri Lankas number one export.
Following a 38 increase in textilebased revenue from 1996 to 1997, in which the industry generated 2.18 billion in earnings, 50 new textile factories opened in Sri Lanka in 1998.
As of 1998, the Sri Lanka apparel industry employed about 300,000 people in 800 factories.
Sri Lanka nationals are primary owners of 85 of the smalltomidsized factories, while larger operations are typically joint ventures or foreignowned.
The end of Sri Lankas civil war in 2009 relieved pressure on the countrys garment industry.
After fighting ceased, Brandix, a garment manufacturer with 25,000 employees, announced that its factory in Punani would double its exports.
Later that year, Sri Lanka held its largest ever Design Festival, highlighting the countrys highfashion merchandise, upcoming designers and advancing the industrys desire to become known as a hub for design, as well as manufacturing.
More exhibits followed once the Conference and Exhibition Management Services began operating out of Sri Lanka in 2010.
In doing so, the global company announced three international textile exhibits in Sri Lanka, each to highlight a different aspect of the local textile and apparel industry while allaying fears about political instability and to show that Sri Lanka can compete with the EU market.
As of the late 2000s decade, the Sri Lankan textile industry contributes 39 to the industrial production of the country and represents 43 of the countrys total exports.
Since the 1970s, the industry has grown to become the countrys largest single source of export revenue.
The United States is the main importer of textile goods from Sri Lanka, accounting for 76 of total exports from Sri Lanka.
As of 2009, Sri Lanka ranked 12th among apparel exporters to the United States in terms of value.
Sri Lanka partnership was advanced in 2000 in part by setting up logistics centres at key US ports to smooth the importation of Sri Lankan goods.
Beginning in 2004, Sri Lankan officials have sought to increase textile deals in North Carolina, the American state with the largest concentration of textile industries.
Women working in Sri Lanka apparel industry.
Through the longrunning Garments without Guilt campaign, the industrys trade association, Sri Lanka Apparel has called attention to its adherence to ethical considerations, including its opposition to child labour.
Sri Lanka Apparel is a signatory to 39 conventions of the International Labour Organization, the only country with a significant manufacturing industry to do so.
Child labour is outlawed in the country, and the minimum statutory age for employment is 18, though some conditional exemptions exist for those over 16.
Sri Lankan law also mandates that employers contribute 3 of an employee's salary to a trust fund, which the employee receives after he or she leaves the company.
Among the largest firms in the Sri Lanka apparel industry, employing about 16,000 people, is MAS Intimates, which is a supplier to Gap, Marks and Spencer, Nike and Victorias Secret, among others.
In recent years, MAS has placed a strong emphasis on corporate social responsibility, for which it has been recognised with a CIMA Financial Management Award in 2007.
Women and minorities in the workforce.
A large portion of Sri Lankas factory work is provided by women.
As of 2010, 350,000 women are employed in the countrys 850 apparel factories, or 85 of the industrys workforce.
Ethnic minorities also play a significant role in apparel production.
The two largest apparel companies in Sri Lanka, MAS and Brandix, are run by individuals who belong to ethnic or religious minority groups.
Sri Lanka is a predominantly Buddhist country, though Brandix is owned by a Muslim family.
MAS Holdings is owned by a Hindu family, however majority of the members of the companys leadership belong to the Buddhist.
Top Apparel Giants in Sri Lanka.
Roses are best known as ornamental plants grown for their flowers in the garden and sometimes indoors.
They have been also used for commercial perfumery and commercial cut flower crops.
Some are used as landscape plants, for hedging and for other utilitarian purposes such as game cover and slope stabilization.
The majority of ornamental roses are hybrids that were bred for their flowers.
A few, mostly species roses are grown for attractive or scented foliage such as Rosa glauca and Rosa rubiginosa, ornamental thorns such as Rosa sericea or for their showy fruit such as Rosa moyesii.
Hybrid tea rose cultivar Mrs.
Some kinds of roses are artificially coloured using dyed water, like rainbow roses.
Rose perfumes are made from rose oil also called attar of roses, which is a mixture of volatile essential oils obtained by steam distilling the crushed petals of roses.
An associated product is rose water which is used for cooking, cosmetics, medicine and religious practices.
The production technique originated in Persia and then spread through Arabia and India, and more recently into eastern Europe.
Rose hips are occasionally made into jam, jelly, marmalade, and soup or are brewed for tea, primarily for their high vitamin C content.
They are also pressed and filtered to make rose hip syrup.
Rose hips are also used to produce rose hip seed oil, which is used in skin products and some makeup products.
Rose water has a very distinctive flavour and is used heavily in Persian and Middle Eastern cuisineespecially in sweets such as nougat, gumdrops, raahat and baklava.
Rose petals or flower buds are sometimes used to flavour ordinary tea or combined with other herbs to make herbal teas.
In France there is much use of rose syrup, most commonly made from an extract of rose petals.
In the United States, this French rose syrup is used to make rose scones and marshmallows.
citation needed In the Indian subcontinent Rooh Afza, a concentrated squash made with roses, is popular, as well as roseflavored ice cream and kulfi.
Rose flowers are used as food, also usually as flavouring or to add their scent to food.
Other minor uses include candied rose petals.
Rose creams rose flavoured fondant covered in chocolate, often topped with a crystallised rose petal are a traditional English confectionery widely available from numerous producers in the UK.
Roses are a favored subject in art and appear in portraits, illustrations, on stamps, as ornaments or as architectural elements.
The Luxembourgborn Belgian artist and botanist PierreJoseph Redouté is known for his detailed watercolours of flowers, particularly roses.
The rose hip, usually from R.
canina, is used as a minor source of vitamin C.
The fruits of many species have significant levels of vitamins and have been used as a food supplement.
Many roses have been used in herbal and folk medicines.
Rosa chinensis has long been used in Chinese traditional medicine.
The long cultural history of the rose has led to it being used often as a symbol.
Codex Manesse illuminated with roses, illustrated between 1305 and 1340 in Zürich.
It contains love songs in Middle High German.
Wild roses are host plants for a number of pests and diseases.
Many of these are also shared with other plants, including especially other genera of the Rosaceae.
Cultivated roses are often subject to severe damage from insects, arachnids and fungal pests and diseases.
In many cases they cannot be usefully grown without regular treatment to control these problems.
They form a group of plants that can be erect shrubs, climbing or trailing with stems that are often armed with sharp prickles.
Flowers vary in size and shape and are usually large and showy, in colours ranging from white through yellows and reds.
Most species are native to Asia, with smaller numbers native to Europe, North America, and northwestern Africa.
The name rose comes from French, itself from Latin rosa.
Crosssection through a developing rose hip.
Exterior view of rose buds.
The leaves are borne alternately on the stem.
In most species they are 5 to 15 centimetres 2.0 to 5.9 in long, pinnate, with 3 59 13 leaflets and basal stipules the leaflets usually have a serrated margin, and often a few small prickles on the underside of the stem.
Most roses are deciduous but a few particularly from Southeast Asia are evergreen or nearly so.
The hybrid garden rose Amber Flush.
Each petal is divided into two distinct lobes and is usually white or pink, though in a few species yellow or red.
Beneath the petals are five sepals or in the case of some Rosa sericea, four.
These may be long enough to be visible when viewed from above and appear as green points alternating with the rounded petals.
Each hip comprises an outer fleshy layer, the hypanthium, which contains 5160 seeds technically dry singleseeded fruits called achenes embedded in a matrix of fine, but stiff, hairs.
Rose hips of some species, especially the dog rose Rosa canina and rugosa rose Rosa rugosa, are very rich in vitamin C, among the richest sources of any plant.
The hips are eaten by fruiteating birds such as thrushes and waxwings, which then disperse the seeds in their droppings.
Rose thorns are actually prickling outgrowths of the epidermis.
True thorns, as produced by e.g.
Citrus or Pyracantha, are modified stems, which always originate at a node, and which have nodes and internodes along the length of the thorn itself. Rose prickles are typically sickleshaped hooks, which aid the rose in hanging onto other vegetation when growing over it.
Some species such as Rosa rugosa and Rosa pimpinellifolia have densely packed straight prickles, probably an adaptation to reduce browsing by animals, but also possibly an adaptation to trap windblown sand and so reduce erosion and protect their roots both of these species grow naturally on coastal sand dunes.
Roses are a popular crop for both domestic and commercial cut flowers.
Generally, they are harvested and cut when in bud and held in refrigerated conditions until ready for display at their point of sale.
In temperate climates, cut roses are often grown in glasshouses, and in warmer countries they may also be grown under cover in order to ensure that the flowers are not damaged by weather and that pest and disease control can be carried out effectively.
Significant quantities are grown in some tropical countries, and these are shipped by air to markets across the world.
The genus Rosa is subdivided into four subgenera.
Hulthemia formerly Simplicifoliae, meaning with single leaves containing one or two species from southwest Asia, R.
persica and Rosa berberifolia which are the only roses without compound leaves or stipules.
Hesperrhodos from the Greek for western rose contains Rosa minutifolia and Rosa stellata, from North America.
Platyrhodon from the Greek for flaky rose, referring to flaky bark with one species from east Asia, Rosa roxburghii also known as the chestnut rose.
Puttu Malayalam പുട്ട്, pronounced ˈputtu, Tamil புட்டு, Sinhala පිට්ටු is a South Indian and Kerala breakfast dish of steamed cylinders of ground rice layered with coconut.
It is highly popular in the Indian state of Kerala as well as in many areas of Sri Lanka, where it is also known as pittu.
Puttu is served with side dishes such as palm sugar or chickpea curry or banana.
Rice Puttu with Gram curry.
Puttu principally consists of coarsely ground rice, grated coconut and water.
It is often spiced with cumin but may have other spices.
The Sri Lankan variant is usually made with wheat flour or red riceflour without cumin whereas the Bhatkal receipes have plain coconut or masala variant made with mutton or shrimp flavoured grated cocunut.
Puttu is made by slowly adding water to ground rice until the correct texture is achieved.
It is then spiced, formed and steamed with layers of grated coconut.
Puttu is generally cooked in a metal puttu kutti vessel with two sections.
The lower section holds water, and the upper section holds the puttu where the rice mixture is inserted with layers of grated coconut.
Perforated lids separate the sections to allow the steam to pass between them.
A number of alternative cooking vessels are used, such as traditional vessels where a perforated coconut shell is attached to a section of bamboo, or a chiratta puttu made of a coconut shell or of metal shaped similarly to a coconut shell.
Chirratu Puttu steaming vessel top view with lid removed.
Other types of cooking vessels include a pan similar to an idli pan with small holes in the bottom, pressure cookers and, mainly in the Malay Archipelago, hollow bamboo stalks.
Puttu is frequently served with various breakfast dishes, such as papadum, plantain, fish curry, jackfruit, mango, chicken curry and kadala curry.
In some areas of Kerala people eat puttu accompanied by sweet black coffee.
In Tamil Nadu it is served with grated coconut with jaggery made of palm or sugar cane, or with sweetened coconut milk.
Some variations of puttu use other grains such as wheat flour, tapioca and corn flour.
The layered filling of coconut can be replaced by other foods, such as egg curry or banana.
Puttu prepared in a ball shape are called manipputtu.
In Maritime Southeast Asia, the most popular puttu variant is bamboosteamed puttu, known as common kue putu in Indonesian, putu bambu in Malay, and puto bumbóng in the Tagalog.
It consists of rice flour with green pandan leaf coloring, cooked with palm sugar filling, steamed in bamboo pipes, and served with grated coconut flesh.
In Indonesia, kue putu is commonly found being sold by travelling vendor cart together with klepon, which is actually ballshaped kue putu.
Puttu is a breakfast item in South India especially Kerala.
It is a form of a rice or wheat cake made in a special cylindrical vessel.
It is usually eaten with banana or legumes.
Puttu is also very common in Mauritius.
It is usually sold by hawkers and is served as a snack.
It is often misspelled poutou and should be spelled putu in Mauritian creole.
The ingredients are the same rice flour, sugar and desiccated coconut but cooked in metal cylinders.
In 2006, students at the Oriental school of Hotel Management in Wayanad in north Kerala made a 10-foot long puttu.
They cooked the giant puttu in a specially designed 12-foot-long aluminium mould, using 20 coconuts and 26 kg of powdered rice.
It took about one and a half hours to cook.
Football field at a sports centre illuminated with floodlights.
They are often used to illuminate outdoor playing fields while an outdoor sports event is being held during lowlight conditions.
More focused kinds are often used as a stage lighting instrument in live performances such as concerts and plays.
Indoor flood lights show floods indoors, as opposed to outdoor floodlights that only show floods outside.
In the top tiers of many professional sports, it is a requirement for stadiums to have floodlights to allow games to be scheduled outside daylight hours.
Evening or night matches may suit spectators who have work or other commitment earlier in the day.
The main motivation for this is television marketing, especially in sports such as gridiron football which rely on TV rights money to finance the sport.
The most common type of floodlight is the metalhalide lamp, which emits a bright white light typically 75100 lumensWatt.
Sodiumvapor lamps are also commonly used for sporting events, as they have a very high lumentowatt ratio typically 80140 lumensWatt, making them a costeffective choice when certain lux levels must be provided.
In recent years there have been new developments, and LED technology has come a long way.
Now LED flood lights are bright enough to be used for illumination purposes on large sport fields.
The main reason for the use of LEDs is the lower power consumption and the fact that LED bulbs last longer.
The first LED lit sports field in the United Kingdom was switched on at Taunton Vale Sports Club on 24 March 2014.
The first sport to play under floodlights was polo, on 18 July 1878.
Ranelagh Club hosted a match in Fulham, London, England against the Hurlingham Club.
A floodlight at Trent Bridge cricket ground in Nottingham.
This is done because several times, the ball travels too high when a batsman hits it, and high lights are needed to keep the ball in sight.
However, many cricket stadiums have different types of floodlights like the ANZ Stadium in Australia.
The DSC Cricket Stadium in Dubai recently installed Ring of Fire system of floodlights which is latest and smartest system of floodlight in the world.citation needed.
A floodlight is used on a football field.
Floodlights on a Rugby League field at the Headingley Stadium in Leeds, UK.
This is a common style of floodlights at older football and rugby grounds in England and Scotland.
Note the two gantries near the light for servicing.
Floodlighting in association football dates as far back as 1878, when there were floodlit experimental matches at Bramall Lane, Sheffield during the dark winter afternoons.
With no national grid, lights were powered by batteries and dynamoes, and were unreliable.
Lights were later be used by clubs such as Thames Ironworks, but they stopped the practice after joining the Southern League in 1888.citation needed.
In the 1930s, Herbert Chapman installed lights into the new West Stand at Highbury, but the Football League refused to sanction their use.
This situation lasted until the 1950s, when the popularity of floodlit friendlies became such that the League relented.
In September 1949, South Liverpool FCs Holly Park ground hosted the first game in England under permanent floodlights a friendly against a Nigerian IX.
The first game played under the lights there was on 31 October 1950, in a friendly against Bournemouth Boscombe Athletic, followed a year later by the first official match under floodlights, a Football Combination Reserve team match against Tottenham Hotspur on 1 October 1951.
The first international game under floodlights of an England game at Wembley was 30 November 1955 against Spain, England winning 41.
The first floodlit Football League match took place at Fratton Park, Portsmouth on 22 February 1956 between Portsmouth and Newcastle United.
Many clubs have taken their floodlights down and replaced them with new ones along the roofline of the stands.
This previously had not been possible as many grounds comprised open terraces and roof lines on covered stands were too low.
Elland Road, Old Trafford and Anfield were the first major grounds to do this in the early 1990s.
The Galpharm Stadium and the JJB Stadium have since been built with traditional floodlights on pylons.
The First Rugby League Match to be played under floodlights was on 14 December 1932 when Wigan met Leeds in an exhibition match played at White City Stadium in London 8pm Kick Off.
Leeds won 189 in front of a crowd of over 10,000 spectators.
The venture was such a success that the owners of the White City Ground took over the Wigan Highfield club and moved them to play Rugby League games at the ground under floodlights the following season, with most of their matches kicking off on Wednesday Nights at 8pm.
That venture only lasted one season before the club moved back up north.
The first floodlit match for rugby league played in the heartlands was on 31 October 1951 at Odsal Stadium, Bradford when Bradford Northern played New Zealand in front of 29,072.
For a club to play in the Super League they must have a ground with floodlights adequate for playing a professional game.
Many smaller amateur clubs will have fewer substantial floodlights, often only suitable for training and not playing a full game.
Often, they will only illuminate a small part of the playing area.citation needed.
Floodlights are also used in other sports such as racing, baseball, and tennis.
A virtual tour is a simulation of an existing location, usually composed of a sequence of videos or still images.
It may also use other multimedia elements such as sound effects, music, narration, and text.
It is distinguished from the use of live television to affect teletourism.
The phrase virtual tour is often used to describe a variety of videos and photographicbased media.
Panorama indicates an unbroken view, since a panorama can be either a series of photographs or panning video footage.
However, the phrases panoramic tour and virtual tour have mostly been associated with virtual tours created using still cameras.
Such virtual tours are made up of a number of shots taken from a single vantage point.
The camera and lens are rotated around what is referred to as a no parallax point, the exact point at the back of the lens where the light converges. 